jae, TD ,

 

|

ae

i

Global Digital Compact Contribution —

DISCLAIMER .

Our claims mention specific stakeholder groups whom we consider bearing the main
responsibility for the respective claims. However, we perceive Internet governance as
a multi-stakeholder process that affects all stakeholder groups.equally. Accordingly,
the implementation of the Global Digital Compact will require the joint engagement of
all saree groups in the process.

Connecting all people to the internet

GENERAL IDEOLOGIES
1. Internet shutdowns must be condemned in the strongest possible terms no
matter the time or place; retrograde steps in. connectivity that harm digital
participation are unacceptable. [GOVERNMENTS]
2. A greater diversity of languages should be available on global platforms:
indigenous and minority languages in particular are abmuaturelly neglected.
[ECONOMY, TECHNICAL COMMUNITY]

CLAIMS

3. Everyone has the right to fast, affordable, reliable and stable internet access.
This applies in particular for mobile broadband networks. [GOVERNMENTS]

4. Equitable Internet access must be achieved through affordable services and
devices. [BUSINESS, GOVERNMENTS]

5. Internet access via mobile data must be affordable so that prices 3 only account
for a reasonable proportion of the monthly income. [BUSINESS,

-GOVERNMENTS]

6. The international community must advocate for a global minimum internet
speed standard. Specifically, we demand at least 16 Mbps to enable working
and learning online. [GOVERNMENTS] .

7. Connectivity infrastructure must be available to each member of society
without discrimination, this must be reflected in policies at all levels of
government. [GOVERNMENTS]

8. We call for the allocation of financial and human resources to support and

' develop new connectivity eapabilitlers [GOVERNMENTS AND TECHNICAL
COMMUNITY]
9. Digital education, for example at work, should be increased, including the
provision of appropriate digital skills training. [BUSINESS, GOVERNMENTS]

10. Children and young people must learn how to use the Internet safely at school.
This includes the protection of their own data, the balanced consideration of
diverse information sources, and IT security. [GOVERNMENTS]

_ Global Digital Compact Contribution Youth IGF Germany . , 1
