
What our coalition has already committed to do
In April 2022, Craig Newmark Philanthropies announced a commitment of more than $ 50 million to support a broad coalition of organizations dedicated to a Cyber Civil Defense initiative. That coalition of entities is calling for a whole-of-society response to the escalating volume and sophistication of cyber-attacks.
There is consensus that a whole-of-society effort is required to address the challenges that cyber insecurity poses to economic development and equity. Cybersecurity needs to be inclusive. Different groups face different issues and have specific needs and requirements with respect to cybersecurity. In a whole-of-society approach, we must ensure that all needs, including those of underserved communities around the world, are represented and addressed.
Education and Skills
There's no denying the world is facing a cybersecurity skills gap. The coalition is committed to provide skills building for those who are not able to participate in certification programs and focus on the 'skills to build', in addition to the current 'certification to get' approach. More efforts should be dedicated to the mutual recognition of skills. Without that, cross-border cooperation and mobility remain challenging.
Tools and Services
In the whole-of-society, not every entity has the tools and services it needs to fulfil its responsibilities. The coalition committed to ensure that solutions are available and work at a global scale. The Global Cyber Alliance is launching a cybersecurity taxonomy project framed as a community-based initiative to identify all cybersecurity risks in the Internet infrastructure and at the end user level. The project aims to identify all current tools and solutions that address known cyber risks and provide the basis for community collaboration to identify gaps. The project will drive community collaboration and concerted action to develop tools and solutions that address those gaps and enable communities to protect themselves from cyber-risks.
Awareness
Building a community and working together to solve cyber insecurity is one aspect. The Global Cyber Alliance is committed to do everything possible to ensure awareness and usability of solutions, tools, and services, and meet the audiences where they are, and not expect greater expertise or commitment of resources than can reasonably be required in today's difficult environment.
Resourcing
The fight against cybercrime has so far received more resources than preventive cybersecurity and resilience. The focus of funding, whether from governments, the philanthropic community, or private sector investments, will determine whether tools and solutions for infrastructure operators and all user communities, including the most vulnerable, can be made available and accessible. Non-profit organizations, even those that provide essential services for the operation of the Internet, find obtaining resources for operations quite challenging. The coalition committed to call for a sustainable funding plan for cybersecurity, one that federates the necessary resources from funding to tools and human expertise to enable people-all people-to be protected.
 April 2023
 2 