
Contribution to the Global Digital Compact
Submission to the Thematic Area 'Digital commons as a global public good': A systematic, whole-of-society approach to digital security.
For years, the international development community has put great efforts into digitalization as an opportunity to fight poverty. Like the revolutions that preceded it, the Fourth Industrial Revolution has the potential to raise global income levels and improve the quality of life for populations around the world. However, digitalization also provides a new breeding ground for organized crime. Thus, a new dimension of social vulnerability follows in the wake of the development opportunities offered by the digital revolution. In order to be sustainable, digital development must be done with a focus on digital security.
As more people and devices are connected, the risks that come with cyber insecurity will only increase. While significant past efforts have improved our risk posture, viable solutions are typically only available at a high cost, thus reserved to larger companies and the wealthiest governments. Cyber is a constitutive element of our societies-its physical, economic, social, and political elements-and its security is essential to equitable and inclusive economic and social development and to the protection of human rights, yet while plenty of initiatives are available to industry, citizens are often left behind and ill-equipped to ensure their online safety. Because of its essential role, cybersecurity should be managed as a global public good.
This submission calls for a whole-of-society approach to addressing the cybersecurity needs of all segments of society and leverage existing best practices, efforts, tools, and solutions to respond and mitigate against growing cybersecurity threats.
Core principle that all governments, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders should adhere to:
Equip all segments of society with skills and affordable, action-oriented, easy-to-follow steps and easy-toimplement solutions to stay safe online.
Key commitments to bring about these specific principles.
Fund cybersecurity education programmes in schools and at the community level
The young generation, despite being digital natives, does not follow cybersecurity best practices. This trend is likely to continue unless cybersecurity training begins at an early age. Cybersecurity should be a part of the regular school curriculum and supported by public-private partnerships as the private sector has a responsibility to ensure that its future customers can use its products and services safely.
Promote cyber tools for all Internet users.
Ensure that citizens and businesses, whatever their situation and sector of activity, are not only aware of cybersecurity best practices, but have access to solutions and actually adopt and implement them. To do so, solutions need to be relevant, localized, affordable, and easily accessible. Governments and non-profits offer useful toolkits around the world. Support these stakeholders, promote existing initiatives, and encourage cooperation.