
 Submission of Inputs for the Global Digital Compact 
 Global Digital Justice Forum
Submission of Inputs for the Global Digital Compact by the Global Digital Justice Forum
Thematic Areas
1. Connect All People to the Internet, Including All Schools
Problem Statement
The current connectivity paradigm led by Big Tech is based on an extractive neoliberal market logic. Its centralized server-client model, predicated on behavioral engineering to valorize user attention for private profit, has thwarted the empowering potential of the Internet for social transformation. The Big Tech model also comes with unsustainable environmental costs-from strip mining of rare earth minerals in conflict zones for development of hardware to huge resource requirements and GHG emissions footprint generated by the global data centers of Internet corporations.
Principles
1. Universal, equal, non-discriminatory, quality access to the Internet and data is a human right.
2. Connectivity must lead to a fair, inclusive and equitable digital society and economy that promotes agentic participation.
3. Children must not be exposed to unaudited algorithms, as their vulnerability to harm is greater. Such algorithms also dilute teacher agency and must be banned in school education.
4. Respect for planetary boundaries and ecological well-being must be a central principle in digital innovation systems and infrastructure development.
5. The governance of digital, data, and AI infrastructures must privilege public accountability, community control and voices of the marginalized, underscoring both individual and collective rights in relation to the ownership and management of digital resources.
Goals
1. To ensure that connectivity results in substantive inclusion and democratization of the Internet's value propositions through public financing models.
2. To promote the development of empowering user cultures, critical digital literacy, and meaningful digital enskillment, including in schools at all levels.
3. To enable alternative platformization pathways for a just digital transition.
Actions-Multilateral System
1. Introduce a Digital Development Tax for a democratically governed Digital Solidarity Fund: this would entail compulsory contributions from dominant digital services firms to finance public digital infrastructure in devel oping countries. This can be a pool created from taxes on market share of digital transnational corporations (TNCs) (across different Internet services layers) and fees levied on Internet registries for domain name sales etc.
 5