
 Submission of Inputs for the Global Digital Compact 
 Global Digital Justice Forum
7. Digital Commons as a Global Public Good
Problem Statement
The multistakeholder model of global Internet governance is riven with multiple conflicts of interest, as private sector actors whose profit imperatives clash with the wider public interest are given an equal seat at the policy table. The at tempt to create an IGF leadership panel to communicate policy decisions from the IGF to appropriate policy forums goes against the WSIS consensus, and has the perverse effect of leading to a situation of Big Tech governing itself. This will perpetuate the status quo of corporate enclosure of the Internet commons.
Global data public goods being created in the UN system (in the health and food systems, for example) lack robust institutional frameworks that can prevent free-riding and enclosure of their value by powerful corporations.
Unrestricted cross-border data flows impede developing countries from furthering their infrastructural capabilities to leverage their data commons for autonomously defining pathways to development.
Principles
1. The global knowledge commons of the Internet must be governed democratically in order to ensure that the social value generated can enshrine democracy, equality, and the right to participation and community for all peoples, especially those at the margins of society.
2. Global data public goods being created in the UN system must be backed by robust institutional frameworks to prevent free-riding and enclosure of their value by powerful corporations.
3. Data sovereignty is development sovereignty. All nation-states must have the policy autonomy to evolve domestic data governance regimes for their infrastructural development.
Goals
1. To actualize the right and duty of all nation-states to uphold a democratic global digital governance regime through a multilateral, people-centered, public policy mechanism for Internet, platform, data and AI technologies, free from corporate capture.
2. To develop a new approach to the governance of data which recognizes networked data resources as a knowledge commons. Networked data refers to the aggregate social knowledge continually co-generated by individuals through their socio-environmental interactions.
Actions-Multilateral System
1. Catalyze an institutional process at the UN level to pursue the unfinished agenda of 'enhanced cooperation' in line with the WSIS Tunis agenda and to check illegitimate TNC interference in the sovereign policy space of state parties.
2. Set up a dedicated institutional mechanism at the multilateral level for access and benefit sharing, akin to the Nagoya Protocol of the Convention on Biological Diversity, for fair benefit sharing in global data public goods.
 14