
 Submission of Inputs for the Global Digital Compact 
 Global Digital Justice Forum
Actions-Governments
1. Provide key services such as email, video-conferencing, search engines, etc. as public goods, just like postal services and basic telecommunication services.
2. Evolve a resource governance regime for the economic governance of data and digital intelligence that is based on a common property resource tradition with appropriate guardrails to prevent enclosure.
3. Institute mandatory data sharing obligations on dominant platform companies that have enclosed huge amounts of data to tackle anti-competitive practices in the digital marketplace. Reform competition law for structural separation of data value chains, in addition to horizontal separation of data service and marketplace layers.
4. Ensure that the maximization of data's public value does not lead to the intensified risk of individual and col lective harms. National laws for the economic governance of data must be based on boundary setting so that human rights guarantees and community claims in the data commons are not traded away. There must be a clear separation of personal data protection regulators from institutional bodies that are entrusted with the task of managing common data pools and data exchanges.
5. Distribute the intelligence value derived from aggregate data resources to the relevant data communities from whose interactions or territories the data was originally extracted.
6. Prioritize the use of free, open, and interoperable digital infrastructures in public administration.
7. Promote alternative platform models, including cooperatives and social enterprises, to enable decentralization of data value for vibrant local economies.
8. A Feminist Approach to the Digital Transition
Problem Statement
An instrumentalist view of digital technologies has resulted in an ecologically destructive and socially untenable world that is rife with gendered exploitation, normalization of precarity, and a breakdown of the social contract.
Principles
1. Make a Southern feminist vision of gender justice a central principle of the Global Digital Compact-see here.
Goals
2. To design a new socio-institutional architecture of digitality that respects the human rights, dignity, and agency of all people as well as the rights of nature inherently associated with natural ecosystems and species.
3. To address the lack of a social care infrastructure in the economy of ubiquitous hustling.
Actions-Multilateral System
1. Invest in alternative platform, data, and AI models rooted in values of local accountability, indigenous modes of knowledge production, women's participation and ecological sustainability. This can be achieved through the STI for SDGs strategy roadmaps and work programs.
 15