
secondary feature. As outlined below, the primary engine to achieve human empowerment is to allow citizens to collectively negotiate the terms and conditions of data processing made by skilled representatives.
3) Best interest of the data subject: The digital economy will likely achieve its full potential by drawing from long-standing principles of asymmetric relations of the offline world. As in any other market, the needs and interests of consumers must be properly weighed and considered.
In consequence, the GDC should promote policies that ensure governments and companies conduct their business operations with the best interest of consumers as a cornerstone. Such an approach brings higher protection and respect to digital and non-digital human rights, which is also in line with the GDC's common agenda report of the Secretary-General, by renewing social contracts through anchored human rights.
Moreover, this policy goal also benefits consumers as much as private entities. Indeed, as outlined above, acting in the consumer's best interest will help a vast number of organisations enjoy the many benefits attached to high levels of trust between market participants. Medical and scientific research for the public good, for example, are likely to obtain better results when they receive higher quantity and quality of data directly from citizens.
Acting in the best interest of digital consumers also supposes a higher level of online safety and well-being. While we celebrate legislation around the Christchurch call, we argue that a human-first regime for digital governance, citizens' effective control over data and a general fiduciary rule of care, loyalty and good faith to digital interactions would allow such legislation to more efficiently serve their purpose and urge the DGC to be at the forefront of these changes.
Finally, a human-centred model for digital governance raises the level of participation of all citizens in the digital economy, which also includes non-users or vulnerable groups. Considering that almost half of the world's population has no internet access, including 1.3 billion children aged 3 to 17 years old and that many of them are also socially or economically vulnerable, the GDC should promote approaches to digital governance that maximise citizen participation. For that reason, we recommend that the GDC leads button-up and multi-stakeholder processes of policymaking to ensure that no one is left behind and ensures that everyone gets a seat at the table.
For the reasons above is that the GIDE invites the GDC to actively promote efforts to include the best interest of people as the core legal concept in the next generation of digital governance regulations around the globe.