
1) Humane-centred approach to digital governance: the GIDE is committed to working with the GDC to change the digital economy data-centric for a citizens-first approach, making people and their safety the ultimate focus of protection, and not just data about them. Such a model for a digital governance regime should be preferred as it maximises people's dignity as human beings. It also provides broader protection to a number of human digital and non-digital rights, not only the right to online privacy or freedom of speech. Much of the GIDE's approach to a person-focused approach to digital governance can be found in our 2022 report Empowering Digital Citizens.
There are other reasons to recommend that the GDC adopts a human-centric approach to digital governance. Indeed, placing people at the centre of digital transformation injects transparency and accountability into the ecosystem; and higher levels of trust are likely to raise the amount of data willingly shared by citizens, which is vital to foster horizontal innovation, more competition and fair digital markets.
The GDC should be an active advocate of human-centred digital regimes, and position humans and their needs at the centre of their digital policies. The relevance of people as key members of the digital society should also be extended to the decision-making processes and architectural schemes, echoing the openness, inclusiveness and decentralisation features of the multistakeholder regime for Internet governance.
2) Control over data: We are committed to working with the GDC to find proper mechanisms to raise the level of protection to citizens in the digital arena, which includes novel threats to human experience and life. These are best achieved when individuals have adequate control over how data about them is collected, stored, shared and processed.
The GIDE recommends the GDC avoids discussions around personal ownership of data. We observe that the full legal debate about ownership is a complex one. Rather, we argue for a different path. Policymakers should focus on the right of individuals to control who has access to their personal data and on what terms such data is used.
The GDC should also not rely on policies that mostly confer protection to humans after they have entered digital interactions or focused mostly (solely) on data about them. Such a rationale is flawed not only because these policies find legal origin in adhesion agreements where clauses are binary, non-negotiable and non-amendable by consumers; but also because they follow the fictitious assumptions that individuals interact with (or have knowledge of) every entity that holds information