
about them; and that the separation between online and offline activities truly exists. In contrast, a fair digital ecosystem must protect humans and their digital and non-digital rights well before they are at the gates of digital interaction, knowingly or not.
In particular, the GIDE urges the GDC to consider that the expansion of datafication of human experience is no longer confined to direct and external activities undertaken by data subjects. Indeed, technologies around emotion detection, affect recognition, neurotechnologies as well as the internet of things and the internet of bodies, show how an ever-growing number of technologies have begun to more actively reach information about consumers that were not envisioned by the current digital regime.
Moreover, an equally large number of companies are more aggressively obtaining data and inferences of personal data through indirect methods. These go well beyond contractual relations with third parties that do not have any commercial relationship or obligations with people, such as data brokers; and include new technologies such as external reality technologies and smart cities that collect and process passive data, automatically and autonomously, that can hardly be considered personal when first collected, as it can be anonymised or encrypted, but nevertheless become personal in much later stages when used to feed machine learning algorithms. In other words, technologies that do not necessarily collect personal data but that can obtain the same insight and the same inferences about people.
Empowering citizens to control how their data is processed and under what terms will also empower small companies and start-ups companies to innovate by countering the anti-competitive effects of vast information lakes held by the market's leaders.
Legislation in Europe (Data Act, Digital Governance Act) has already taken the first step to solve this issue. For example, our proposals are in line with the creation of data representatives and data altruism (which we call Data Commons). However, without proper economic and social incentives, these legislations may not only be gamed by the biggest players, but they will have little real applicability.
For that reason, we recommend the GDC develop policies that advocate for open data repositories allowing a wider variety of companies to get decentralised, high-quality and ongoing sources of information. The GDC should spearhead this transition as it fosters better, faster and equitable innovation, more jobs and ultimately economic growth.
A human-centred digital governance regime carries de facto governance changes, most importantly, leaving the ability of technologies to protect individual rights as a