
Importantly, the GDC should advocate for the inclusion of these principles into AI systems as it helps to solve one of the most troublesome issues around data collection. Indeed, collective agreements reached through rights of representation can enjoy automatic oversight when AI actors adopt a human-centred approach to algorithms.
For example, non-personal data, while being increasingly easily converted into personal data but bound to a much lower level of legal protection, can more easily be moved and shared between stakeholders. However, embedding human-needs-first features in algorithms would ensure a higher level of protection for citizens, irrespective of whether or when these companies convert such non-personal data into personal data.
The GIDE also recognises that achieving AI's full potential for societal good in the long term requires that civilians operate with a higher level of digital literacy. For that reason, we believe that the GDC must work with other relevant stakeholders to develop manuals and guidelines to be included in school curriculums to ensure that new generations have the necessary skills to fully enjoy the digital society. Importantly, digital civic education will require maintaining our official digital information accurate and up to date.
To develop its proposals on AI ethics, the GIDE recommends the GCD to lean on already existent policy and legal documents (eg. the G20 and OECD AI principles and the European and United States AI acts). However, further work needs to be done at a policy level to avoid situations where intended or unintended outcomes put citizens, especially the most vulnerable, at risk. The GIDE considers that the GDC, as a United Nations body, should spearhead the development of the next set of AI principles.
6) Final remarks:
The GIDE is committed to working with GDC and developing policies that ensure that every country, irrespective of their level of economic development, can create legal frameworks and institutions that allow citizens to gain effective control over who accesses data about them and under what terms. This goal can be achieved by adopting a human-centred approach to digital governance, made through effective control of data and exercised by skilled representatives; as well as the adoption of these changes by artificial intelligence actors.
The GIDE also celebrates that all the above-outlined principles already exist in other governance regimes and recognises many institutions and advocates have raised them as possible solutions to issues around data management. However, when applied in isolation, none of them would make a permanent impact on current overreaching data practices. On the contrary, they will most likely support and