
Making Humane Markets Work in the Digital Age Submission to the Global Digital Compact
The Global Initiative for Digital Empowerment ('GIDE') is committed to ensuring citizens become active participants in the digital economy, irrespective of their country's level of development. While we recognise that different countries deal with different digital obstacles, we argue that many can be better solved by re-balancing the current power structures of online interactions. This can be achieved through strong representation rights and institutions, by applying to digital interactions long-standing fiduciary rules of the offline world, and by ensuring that artificial intelligence actors embed in their algorithms human-first and human-needs features to their tools.
The GIDE considers that a humane digital ecosystem, and a human-centred digital regime, must position people and their dignity at the centre of governance models; but also recognise that humans are social creatures who derive life meaning in conducting personal relationships and belonging to social groups, both of their own choosing and with high expectations of freedom. We are committed to collaborating with the United Nations to achieve human empowerment and celebrate the inclusion of the Global Digital Compact (GDC) as part of Our Common Agenda.
Human empowerment can also become a driver for innovation and economic growth. While we celebrate that most legislations around the globe embed long-standing principles of digital governance (OECD, 1980) as well as international instruments on human rights and recent legislative development in leading countries provide a first shift toward human empowerment, we consider that further work needs to be done to achieve the key proposals of the United Nations 'Our Common Agenda' report.
Indeed, the GDC should consider first-generation legislation such as the General Data Protection Directive ('GDPR') and the California Consumer Privacy Act (USA) the first step into citizen empowerment; and recent legislative development, or second-generation legislation, in Europe (EU EIDAS, Data Act, Data Governance Act, etc) and elsewhere (eg. Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights (USA) a second building block for a humane-centred digital governance regime.
Looking into the future, the GDC should aim to deliver a third building block, one that ensures that every group, community, and country can create frameworks and institutions that allow citizens to gain effective control over who accesses data about them and under what terms. For that reason, we propose the GDC adopts and promotes the following as the guiding principles for the next generation of digital governance regimes: