
Current legislation, particularly in Europe, is already rising to such a challenge. The European Declaration for Digital Rights and Principles, the Artificial Intelligence Act and the Digital Wallet Recommendations has already put citizens at the centre of digital transformation. Moreover, the best interest of data subjects will likely be one of the guiding principles of the upcoming review of the GDPR.
4) Right of Representation: One of the biggest challenges for policymakers is to provide measures to better balance the extreme power, skills and knowledge asymmetries between consumers and digital technologies providers. This makes it impossible for citizens to meaningfully control information about them. This failure is further exacerbated by the high levels of market dominance of the largest digital firms. For that reason, the GDC should promote the development of strong rights of association and representation, and allow citizens to participate in the digital economy collectively, through skilled digital representatives.
The idea behind this principle is based on both economic and social reasons. Indeed, although we consider the GDC should avoid debates around the economic value of data, the reality is most data is currently processed as if it was the means of production for goods and services. Put on economic terms, the GIDE is committed to working with the GDC to develop policies that allow citizens to collectively negotiate access to the resource rather than its location.
Finally, the GDC should lead efforts to find the necessary architecture and legal environment for the proper landing of collective digital representation, including key challenges such as tailoring and improving existing mechanisms to the digital ecosystem, independence, reachability and legal limits, accountability and oversight.
5) Artificial Intelligence Ethics: The humans-first digital governance regime proposed by the GIDE requires ensuring that Artificial Intelligence ('AI') actors adopt and promote such framework, not only in the application of AI systems to personal data, but also in the collection and use of personal data in machine learning datasets which underpins its development. This becomes particularly important given the accelerated speed of AI technology and the fact that many of these tools can autonomously be fed with publicly available information.
As mentioned above, the concept of bottom-up and multi-stakeholder development is crucial to achieving a broad AI ethical framework, as their procedures are considered to be the gold standard for social inclusion of vulnerable groups. This gains exponential importance when considering that many algorithms currently have some sort of bias against minorities and other vulnerable groups. Examples in the Internet regime of governance also speak of other valuable goals to consider, such as a higher level of trust and reliability in the system.