
Global Digital Compact Google 31 March 2023
Secretary-General Guterres and participants of the Summit of the Future,
Thank you for the opportunity to submit input to the UN Global Digital Compact. Our core mission at Google is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. We believe that many of the challenges of our era can only be effectively addressed by global collaboration across borders. Whether it's a pandemic, climate change, or the health of the global economy, we live in an interconnected world in which international organizations like the United Nations, governments, civil society, and private sector businesses like Google must work together to tackle humanity's collective challenges to realize a more prosperous future for all. Among the most important of those challenges is accelerating the world's digital transformation in ways that advance opportunity for all people and protect our planet. Technological innovation holds tremendous promise not just to democratize access to next-generation tools but also to accelerate progress on the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We believe technology is a force for good. We have recently seen how technology-enabled solutions like smartphone-based exposure notifications can support public health authorities in the fight against COVID-19, machine-learning models help reduce and optimize energy consumption, and AI, when deployed responsibly, can address a host of challenges. At Google, we are proud to be pushing the frontiers of innovation, investing billions in R&D each year to generate new technologies that help address the world's biggest cross-border problems.
But challenges remain, and we know that the promise of technology is not a given. Despite the recent acceleration of digital transformation, there are still numerous issues to address before technology's potential can be fully realized-issues that can be addressed through a truly collaborative, multistakeholder effort under the auspices of the UN Global Digital Compact.
-
1) Protect the open internet (SDG 9)
The global internet was built to be a shared resource that everyone could access wherever they lived-but over the last few years this ideal has been increasingly challenged. Regulatory barriers to the free flow of information across borders are threatening to fragment the internet. New and revitalized global governance frameworks are needed for an increasingly digitized world, and international organizations will be critical to achieving them.
Digital fragmentation impacts everyone using the internet. As conflicting regulations proliferate, people's access to information, privacy protections, and freedom to transact and communicate increasingly vary depending on where they are located. Digital fragmentation has become a