
significant barrier to international trade, with a particularly pernicious effect on small businesses, which lack the resources to navigate an array of conflicting rules. And it discriminates against emerging markets, as new products become harder to launch and scale on a fragmented Internet to all markets.
In particular, we're seeing a number of governments take actions to crack down on the free flow of information and ideas, increase government surveillance, and restrict access to cross-border internet services under the banner of 'cyber-sovereignty.' In the most extreme cases, certain governments have leveraged technology to silence critical voices and conceal human rights abuses. Google actively works to maintain global access to its services, contributes to core internet standards, and continues to develop tools to expose and oppose internet shutdowns and cyber-attacks, but effectively countering the growing trend of digital censorship will take a multistakeholder, intergovernmental effort. As the UN Global Digital Compact and other international efforts like the Declaration for the Future of the Internet take shape, Google believes that discussions should be grounded in a few common principles:
● First, governments and international organizations should strive to agree on common standards to guide the development of new rules for digital technologies, so that consumers have consistent protections across borders and access to digital tools.
● Second, governments and international organizations should strive to increase interoperability between national digital rules (as we have seen with the US-EU Data Privacy Framework and the Global Cross Border Privacy Rules).
● Third, governments and international organizations like the UN should commit to intergovernmental regulatory dialogue to ensure that new rules strengthen shared values-the GDC is an excellent opportunity for such dialogue.
● And fourth, governments and international organizations should abide by core open trade principles like non-discriminatory approaches to regulation that do not single out foreign companies.
2) Respect human rights (SDG 16)
In their first letter to shareholders, our founders highlighted Google's mission to 'develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people as possible.' This vision continues to guide Google. From Search to YouTube, Gmail to Google Maps-we've worked to ensure that our products increase access to information, help people connect with one another, and amplify opportunities around the world. In doing so, Google's business, products, and technology have long had implications for the advancement of global human rights, and we have had a stake in the conversations around the intersections of human rights and digital governance.
Google is guided by internationally recognized human rights standards, and we believe that the future of the internet must be founded on them too. We are committed to respecting the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its implementing treaties, as well