
as upholding the standards established in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and in the Global Network Initiative Principles (GNI Principles).
These frameworks are the foundation of our responsible approaches to critical issues ranging from content to privacy to AI governance. We encourage greater industry adoption of these standards to ensure advancements in technology continue to benefit everyone.
3) Expand access and connectivity to the global internet so that all people can benefit from it (SDG 9)
Connectivity is the foundation of an inclusive digital economy, but 2.7 billion people worldwide remain disconnected from the global internet. We are focused on developing infrastructure that can help bring the internet to more people-like the subsea cables we are building between Western Europe and the West Coast of Africa, which will increase bandwidth speeds and expand connectivity. Through the Android ecosystem, we are promoting the availability of affordable devices that enable more users to access the Internet and digital tools, so that online participation is not limited to those who can afford luxury devices. And through support for a responsible advertising ecosystem that keeps data safe and secure, we are working to keep the internet accessible to all, making it possible for small businesses to reach new customers locally and around the globe.
Google believes that an open, free, secure, resilient and interoperable internet facilitates free expression, increases opportunities for everyone with internet access, and drives investment and innovation. Closing the global digital divide is not only critical for ensuring that all people can benefit from the opportunities afforded by digital tools, but also because we are missing out on the knowledge, expertise, and creativity that each person who lacks access to the internet has to offer to the rest of the world. We must bridge the digital divide with a view towards equity, ensuring connectivity to rural and urban areas for all people, including those with disabilities. We fully support legislative, regulatory, and policy efforts that expand connectivity and will continue to play our part.
4) We must ensure that the world's digital transformation enables economic opportunities for people across the world (SDGs 1, 3, 4, 8, 10)
More than ever, entrepreneurs and existing businesses around the world are leveraging technology and the internet to connect, create, and expand, bringing new jobs and economic opportunity to their communities. The internet is also opening new opportunities for workers to build skills and expand their own horizons. But these opportunities for entrepreneurs and workers are not yet universally accessible.
The last several years presented once-in-a-generation challenges that have fallen hardest on emerging economies. Yet emerging markets also have some of the most vibrant economies and greatest entrepreneurial energy in the world. With the right policy frameworks, they can become ideal launching pads for future innovation.