
stages in their lives. Some have always known a world with smartphones, while others have lived most of their lives without access to the web. Our product and policy development, as well as our policy enforcement decisions, take into account the diversity of our users and seek to address their needs appropriately.
Each of the products and services we offer has a different purpose, and people have different expectations of what kind of content they will interact with. So, we tailor our approach to the content that should be available on each product and service carefully. For example, Google Chrome is a tool for viewing the breadth of content on the internet, warning only of pages potentially infected by malware. Google Search serves as an index of all pages available on the open web, where users expect to find every legal webpage pertaining to their query. Therefore, it leans toward the least restrictive end of that spectrum. On the other end, our advertising products are among the most restrictive, as we do not want to profit from those who create harmful content or experiences. Other products fall elsewhere on the spectrum. For instance, Gmail involves minimal limitations on content, while YouTube is a platform for uploading and sharing content as part of a community, which requires broader prohibitions than Google Search.
It is important to note that some features of Google Search, like Autocomplete, provide information to help people get to the results they are looking for as quickly as possible. But we also want to be careful not to show potentially upsetting content to people when they haven't asked for it. For these features, we have developed policies to exclude things like child sexual abuse materials or violence from appearing. Actions taken on these features do not limit what users can search for.
We rely on four complementary levers to support information quality and moderate content across many of our products and services:
● Remove : We set responsible rules for each of our products and services and take action against content and behaviors that infringe on them. We also comply with legal obligations requiring the removal of content.
● Raise : We elevate high-quality content and authoritative sources where it matters most.
● Reduce : We reduce the spread of potentially harmful information where we feature or recommend content.
● Reward : We set a high standard of quality and reliability for publishers and content creators who would like to monetize or advertise their content.
These levers allow us to be consistent in our methodology across products while tailoring their implementation to fit the uses and needs of each.