
7) Promote the use of technology in ways that advance sustainability (SDGs 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15)
As Secretary-General Guterres said, 'Looking to the future, two seismic shifts will shape the 21st century: the climate crisis, and digital transformation.'
In our founding decade, Google became the first major company to be carbon neutral. In our second decade, we were the first major company to match 100% of our annual electricity use with renewable energy. By 2030, we aim to be the first major company to operate on 24/7 carbon-free energy. But this alone is not enough.
Beyond Google, a grid powered by clean energy will reduce a major source of greenhouse gas emissions and unleash sustainable innovation in other parts of our economy, like electrification of the transportation sector. This is good for the planet, good for people, and good for business.
But for us and other companies to realize this future, we need to galvanize investment and modernization of the world's energy infrastructure, continue to tackle misinformation on climate change, and accelerate the sharing of technology, methods, and funding to help all people transition to resilient, carbon-free systems.
Digital efforts will play a key role in this energy transition. We stand committed to helping organizations around the world accelerate advances in climate information and action, driven by open data, AI, machine learning and other digital tools, and support efforts to facilitate collaboration worldwide.
8) We must protect data and ensure portability (SDG 9)
Data portability is fundamental to promoting consumer choice and data protection. We believe data portability is a secure way to foster innovation and competition among digital service providers. When people can easily switch to a new product or service, without the fear of losing access to their data, companies are encouraged to provide the best possible services to win over new users. For over a decade, Google has offered its users data portability-the ability to take your Google data with you, even if you are no longer using a Google service.
We believe data portability rules should follow three key principles:
● Put people first. Data portability supports competition by empowering consumers. Supporting standards for the most common data types will accelerate innovation in products that have a high value for consumers-including services for photos, playlists and contacts.
● Require exportability. Platforms that allow people to import their data should also allow them to export it. This encourages people to try new services without the risk that they will lose their data. Consumers will be more likely to try something new if they know they can change their mind.