
We call these emerging economies 'Digital Sprinters,' a subject on which we released a comprehensive report in 2020. By becoming more digital these countries have the potential to sprint ahead toward economic development. Based on our experiences, we believe governments, international organizations, and the private sector should focus on four key areas:
● Physical capital : this is about digital connectivity and infrastructure. It's not just about investment but also how infrastructure is managed.
● Human capital: countries need a comprehensive approach to worker training, economic security, entrepreneurship, and combating discrimination.
● Technology: increasing the use of data, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing, which empower the growth of next-generation technologies and unlock future growth. This means new opportunities alongside new questions about how best to harness these technologies.
● Competitiveness: policies that promote competitive and open markets, interoperable regulatory standards, and tax regimes that are predictable and based on international standards.
The economic potential from digital transformation is huge. By 2030, digital transformation could generate as much $3.4 trillion of economic value in certain emerging markets. On the sidelines of the 2022 United Nations General Assembly, we expanded the measurement of potential gains in what we call 'Digital Sprinters' markets by launching the Portulans Institute's first global Future Readiness Economic Index. The report covers 124 economies and helps countries in assessing how ready they are for the future, and how they can accelerate their digital transformation for stronger, sustainable and inclusive growth.
5) Promote responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) and innovation (SDG 9)
We believe that AI, including its core methods such as machine learning (ML), is a foundational and transformational technology. AI enables innovative new uses of tools, products, and services, and it is used by billions of people every day, as well as businesses, governments, and other organizations. AI can assist, complement, empower, and inspire people in almost every field, from everyday tasks to bold and imaginative endeavors. It can unlock new scientific discoveries and opportunities, and help tackle humanity's greatest challenges-today and in the future.
AI will have a significant impact on our global society for many years to come. That's why we established our industry-leading AI Principles in 2018. These are backed by the operational processes and structures necessary to ensure they are not just words but concrete standards that actively impact our research, products and business decisions to ensure trustworthy and effective AI application. We encourage other companies to follow suit, and the Global Digital Compact could draw attention to such industry-led principles to inform its work on AI moving forward.