
provide a number of helpful reference points. The Principles aim to advance digital safety in a rights-respecting way, drive multi-stakeholder alignment, and enable positive behaviors and actions across the digital ecosystem. In addition, the EU 2022 Code of Practice on Disinformation, which Google and 30+ other companies and organizations have committed to, serves as another helpful, multilateral reference point that incorporates constructive input from stakeholders. In addition to this, the Christchurch Call serves as yet another example of governments and tech converging to strengthen joint responses to online terror events. The Christchurch Call is a community of over 120 governments, online service providers, and civil society organizations acting together to eliminate terrorist and violent extremist content online and one in which we played a leading role. Lastly, the Global Network Initiative (GNI) could also help to inform the UN's work moving forward. T he GNI Principles and Implementation Guidelines provide an evolving framework for responsible company decision making in support of freedom of expression and privacy rights. Google is an active member and the GNI Principles are taking root as a global standard for human rights in the ICT sector.
Our approach to information quality
There are inherent tensions that come with fulfilling our mission to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. We must strike a careful balance between the free flow of information, safety, efficiency, accuracy, and other competing values and we hope that our approach will be accurately reflected in any future UN Code of Conduct to Promote Integrity in Public Information and the UN Global Digital Compact.
To help inform both processes, we would like to highlight that the product, policy, and enforcement decisions we make in this complex environment are guided by a set of considerations that are consistent across the spectrum of our products and services:
● Value openness and accessibility : We aim to provide access to an open and diverse information ecosystem. But that does not mean that anything and everything goes on our services. Removal of content is an important lever we use to address information quality. However, it is not the only lever at our disposal, and we use it with caution, particularly in the context of Search. We believe that a healthy and responsible approach to supporting information quality should aim toward keeping content accessible.
● Respect user choice : Users who express an intent to explore content that is not illegal or prohibited by our policies should be able to find it, even if all available indicators suggest it is of relatively low quality. We set a higher bar for information quality where users have not clearly expressed what they are looking for.
● Build for everyone : Our services are used around the world by users from different cultures, languages, and backgrounds, and at different