
● Prioritize privacy and security. Portability regulation must include safeguards against unauthorized access, diversion of data, and other types of fraud. This should include account authorization, encryption and delayed delivery.
9) We must promote responsible open source and open data. (SDG 9)
At Google we have long believed that open data and open source are good not only for us and our industry, but also benefit the world at large. More accessible data can meaningfully help people and organizations, and we are doing our part by opening datasets, providing access to APIs and aggregated product data, and developing tools to make data more accessible and useful.
What makes data useful is how easily it can be analyzed. Though there is more open data today, data scientists spend significant time analyzing it across multiple sources. That can take days or weeks. We've developed tools at Google like our Data Commons to make that easier, but we are supportive of further efforts to promote common datasets.
There are also trade-offs to opening up data, and we believe it is essential that the global community balance various sensitivities with the potential benefits of sharing. One consideration is that broad data openness can facilitate uses that do not align with our AI Principles. Extreme data openness can also risk exposing user or proprietary information, causing privacy breaches or threatening the security of our platforms. We allow third party developers to build on services like Maps, Gmail and more via APIs, so they can build their own products while user data is kept safe. We also publish aggregated product data like Search Trends to share information of public interest in a privacy-preserving way.
While there can be benefits to using sensitive data in controlled and principled ways, like predicting medical conditions or events, it is critical that safeguards are in place so that training machine learning models does not compromise individual privacy and we encourage UN Member States to be mindful of these tradeoffs as the Global Digital Compact moves forward.
-
While we continue to push the frontier of bold yet responsible innovation, Google is committed to supporting the UN Global Digital Compact to use technology to tackle humanity's collective challenges, both now and in the future.