
We welcome efforts by policymakers around the world to develop proportional, risk-based regulations that promote reliable, robust and trustworthy AI applications, while still enabling innovation and the promise of AI for societal benefit. Indeed, the 'Global Digital Compact: Background Note (version 17 January 2023)' stated that 'the Compact could also promote regulation of artificial intelligence to ensure that this is aligned with shared global values.' We agree. The challenge is to do so in a way that is proportionately tailored to mitigate risks and promote reliable, robust and trustworthy AI applications, while still enabling innovation and the promise of AI for societal benefit. We encourage the United Nations and its member states to keep this in mind as the Global Digital Compact unfolds.
We believe that AI has the potential to benefit people and society through its capacity to:
● Make information more useful and available to more people, everywhere, often helping overcome barriers including access and language
● Assist people and organizations to make decisions, solve problems, be more productive and creative in their daily and work lives
● Enable innovation that leads to new, helpful products and services for people, organizations, and society more broadly
● Help tackle current and pressing real world challenges, such as public health crises, natural disasters (early warning systems), climate change, and sustainability
● Enable scientific and other breakthroughs to address humanity's greatest future opportunities and challenges (e.g. medical diagnosis, drug discovery, climate forecasting)
The foundational nature of AI means that AI will also power and transform existing infrastructure, tools, software, hardware, and devices-including products and services not normally thought of as AI. A non-exhaustive list of our products that are already being transformed by AI includes, among others, Google Search, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Workspace, Android, and Pixel phones. AI will significantly enhance their usefulness and multiply their value to people. It will also lead to new categories of assistive tools, products, and services, often with breakthrough capabilities and performance made possible only through AI. This includes quantum computing, robotics, more powerful and inclusive language translators, conversational AI and assistants, generative and multi-modal AI, robotics and driverless cars, and other areas that our research teams continue to work on.
Our goal is to bring to users useful innovations made possible by AI that benefit people and society. Advancing the state of the art helps us expand and progress AI capability to deliver innovations that can assist and improve the lives of many, while generating sustaining value that enables us to continue investing in transformative innovations.
We are pursuing and delivering on this aspiration in several ways:
Advance the state of the art for more capable AI that can benefit people and society:
● Use AI to make breakthrough progress in science and other areas where we aim to advance scientific and engineering progress. Examples of our