
part of a whole-of-society approach. The global community must redirect and incentivize investments in those socio-technical innovations that clearly contribute to achieving our common sustainability goals.
In this line of reasoning and as a strong supporter and co-champion of the Coalition for Digital Environmental Sustainability CODES, we endorse the recommendations of CODES to the Global Digital Compact:
1. THE 'ENABLE ALIGNMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT' PRINCIPLE-Reorient the purpose of digitalization to develop common visions, values and renewed objectives for sustainable development in the Digital Age. The global community needs to proactively shape and govern digital change as a fundamental sustainability issue of the 21st Century.
3. THE 'INNOVATE WITH PURPOSE' PRINCIPLE-Ensure that all stakeholders channel large investments, capacity development and collective efforts in socio-technical innovations towards achieving our sustainable development goals. The global community needs to incentivise and steer these actions and investments across all policy levels and sustainability needs.
2. THE 'MITIGATE HARM WITH SUSTAINABLE DIGITALIZATION' PRINCIPLE-Ensure that the negative environmental and social impacts of the Digital Age are mitigated. The global community needs to make digital infrastructures, products and services more sustainable, inclusive and equitable within a whole-of-society approach.
C. KEY COMMITMENTS, PLEDGES, ACTIONS
$_{We endorse the nine actions developed in the GDC submission of CODES. As a German actor at the }$
science-policy interface and with experience on (digital) eco-design and sustainability policies in the Digital Age, we further propose three specific actions to support each of the three principles laid out above:
1. Implement a ' Global Digital Sustainability Outlook' (GDSO) : Considering the rapid speed of digital transformation and its deep impacts on people, societies and our planet, we support-as overarching common action of the GDC-the institutionalization of a multi-lateral, UN-based and scientifically-driven GDSO to monitor and assess systemic risks of the digital transformation in the short-and long-term perspective on a permanent base for further decision-making.
2. Build and mainstream an ' UN Eco-design Framework for Sustainable Digital Infrastructures ': Taking into account the rapid speed and scale of digital infrastructure development in the years to come, the global community must ensure that this massive build-up is done in the most sustainable way possible. The UN and international actors