
Executive summary
One of the popular beliefs about cyberspace, particularly from an international law point of view, is that it is a lawless space. This view is unwarranted despite the lack of a universal treaty regarding that matter. Undoubtedly, a variety of international law instruments can be applied to cyberspace and to digital activities in general. All the fields from international law should be leveraged to do so: international human rights law, international humanitarian law, international criminal law, international trade law, space law, etc.
Still, two caveats should be considered. First, due to challenging legal debates between States regarding the digital sector, many non-state initiatives have emerged to propose interpretations of international law, or even new standards. Second, the legal value of the hundreds of instruments that may apply to digital activities varies greatly.
Undoubtedly, the lack of an international treaty (notwithstanding the Council of Europe's Convention against Cybercrime) is one explanation for this large number of instruments and initiatives. Alongside the classic sources of international law (treaties, customary law, general principles of law), these instruments and initiatives have a varying normative scope, are seldom legally binding and range from simple reports and guidelines to unilateral acts or secondary legislation enacted by international organizations, including non-conventional concerted acts. Their vast majority cannot be relied upon to hold private or public digital actors responsible in the event of violation of their obligations.
While this variety of instruments and initiative contribute to providing a framework for digital activities, a clarification of the applicable law should be provided at an international level.
The emergence of new technologies has profound political, social and economic implications, both positive and negative, that should be addressed by international law. Several challenges and opportunities arise from the use of digital technologies: relationship between public and private actors, political instrumentalization of international law on digital issues (right of access to the Internet, content control, data protection) and endemic digital inequalities.
The adequacy of existing legal rules to address these challenges is constantly assessed in the light of the impact of new technological developments. Existing academic and policy discussions often debate whether current international legal rules are clear, precise and comprehensive enough to keep up with the rapid pace of digitalisation. It is no longer time to simply raise this question and reiterate the principle of the applicability of international law to cyberspace. It is now time to provide concrete and operational answers that will meet the regulatory needs of the digital sector.
In accordance with the principles of Internet governance recognised by the World Summit on the Information Society, non-state actors' views must be taken into account in the formation and application of law. Operational mechanisms that will enable effective multi-stakeholder and multilateral governance should be envisioned to enable balanced relationships between private and public actors. Cooperation and co-regulation processes that include all stakeholders should be fostered, rather than strictly dividing roles between public actors dealing with public policy and private actors dealing with technical issues.
 3