
information to the complete blocking of data flows to and from the outside world. As a result, internet users from a specific country may be totally prevented from interacting with users based abroad and may be unable to access certain content, websites or applications.
Internet fragmentation should not only be seen as a set of technical measures that create borders within the logical or physical layers of the networks. In most cases, it will also restrict the means of communication of individuals, and thus their capacity to meet, consult, mobilize, inform and be informed at a global scale. Internet fragmentation notably includes creating bans on global social media platforms or search engines with the intent to prevent citizens from accessing content that is of vital interest to them and may help them keep informed. This type of measure can be a way for governments to control the digital activities carried out 'on' their territory, to isolate their country from the rest of the network and even to create blackout situations for populations in the case of internet shutdowns. Users often use VPNs to bypass these restrictions. However, such practices have been deemed unlawful by several legislations across the globe, in order to discourage them, while most users are unaware of how to safely use VPNs.
Thus, internet fragmentation is harmful from the point of view of international human rights. It can be an indirect way of restricting individuals' digital activities and violating principles set out in several international instruments.
Key commitments:
-States should promote a global, open and neutral internet.
-Security issues should not be used as a pretext to infringe on human rights by limiting users' access to global content.
-Companies should be encouraged no to contribute to internet fragmentation.
Protect data
Digital data has become an inescapable resource that raises contradictory issues: protection of human rights and privacy, national security, economic development, data circulation, digital sovereignty, application of the law to the multiple uses of data, etc. The increase in the volume of data and the diversification of its uses, in particular with artificial intelligence (AI), raises new questions in terms of governance of this data.
The interpretation of privacy provisions will be of particular importance in the future, because it is a fundamental right and one of the elements of the legal regime for the protection of personal data. This right is at the heart of complex situations such as mass and targeted surveillance by public and private actors, interception and storage of personal data to fight cybercrime, extraterritoriality of data protection regimes, and principles framing this protection (right to be forgotten, right to rectification, principle of consent to the processing of one's personal data, purpose limitation, data minimisation, accuracy, lawfulness, transparency, lawfulness, data storage limitation, confidentiality and integrity, etc.).
The diversification of data implies a better identification of the types of existing data to adapt the regulation of their use. For instance, one may wonder if digital data is an asset under international humanitarian law during armed conflict, international trade law or in the law of diplomatic immunities.
Since an international legal regime is currently lacking, there is a tendency to adopt laws at regional, national or even sub-national level, which include provisions with extraterritorial scope. This increases
 5