
Submission
Connect all people to the internet
Restrictions to internet access can violate both international human rights law as well as treaty provisions related to the rule of law and democratic processes. While not specifically enshrined in the international legal instruments, the requirement that States should not interfere with people's access to the Internet can be addressed, among others, through freedom of expression and right to information safeguards.
To this end, internet restrictions should be considered not merely as technical measures affecting the logical or physical layers of the networks, but also as a tool used to impair the means of expression of individuals (see below, Avoid internet fragmentation). Therefore, internet shutdowns and content blocking may constitute violations of the principles contained in several international human rights instruments, in particular article 19 (right to freedom of expression, the scope of which is clarified by General Comment 34 of the Human Rights Committee) and article 21 (right of assembly) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Regional conventions for the protection of human rights generally include similar provisions.
This perspective is supported by the practice of several organs and international institutions, notably resolutions adopted by the Human Rights Council on 'The promotion, protection and fulfillment of human rights on the Internet' (A/HRC/32/L.20, June 27th, 2016). The Council condemns measures that seek to ' intentionally prevent or disrupt access to or dissemination of information online in violation of international human rights law, and calls upon all States to refrain from and cease such measures ', relying on a substantial number of secondary legislation not specifically related to the issue of Internet access. Several UN Special Rapporteurs have recognized the fundamental nature of the right of access to the Internet through the prism of freedom of expression or the right to peaceful assembly. However, this right of access to the internet should not be construed as a duty of States to provide access without any charge.
Key commitments:
-States should refrain from restricting people's access to the internet, in order to comply with relevant human rights instruments.
-States should recognize that access to the internet is a driver for development and must be safeguarded.
Avoid internet fragmentation
Since the early 2010s, several States have introduced policies that prevent their citizens from accessing a global and open Internet. Some of them have even gone as far as trying to demarcate their digital space, creating borders of a sort through the development of dedicated domestic infrastructures and, thus, isolating themselves more or less from the rest of the digital universe. Other States resort to data relocation processes, with the aim of making it a condition for digital companies to continue their activities that data be processed on their territory. Cybersecurity issues, disinformation, data breaches, personal data protection and national security requirements have been used as justifications to create de facto intranets.
This results in an 'internet fragmentation' (or internet segmentation), in other terms the creation of a technical border around their territory, ranging from the discrimination of certain categories of
 4